GALADRIEL
The world is changed: I feel it in the
water, I feel it in the earth, I smell it
in the air...Much that once was is lost,
for none now live who remember it.

GALADRIEL
It began with the forging of the Great
Rings.

GALADRIEL
Three were given to the Elves, immortal,
wisest...fairest of all beings.

GALADRIEL
Seven to the Dwarf Lords, great miners
and craftsmen of the mountain halls.

GALADRIEL
And Nine...nine rings were gifted to the
race of Men who, above all else, desire
power.

GALADRIEL
For within these rings was bound the
strength and will to govern each race.

GALADRIEL
But they were all of them deceived.

GALADRIEL
...for another ring was made.

GALADRIEL
In the land of Mordor, in the fires of
Mount Doom, the Dark Lord Sauron forged
in secret a Master Ring to control all
others.

GALADRIEL
...and into this Ring he poured his
cruelty, his malice and his will to
dominate all life.

GALADRIEL
One Ring to rule them all...

GALADRIEL
One by one the Free lands of Middle earth
fell to the power of the ring.

GALADRIEL
But there were some...who resisted.

GALADRIEL
A last alliance of Men and Elves marched
against the armies of Mordor.

GALADRIEL
On the slopes of Mount Doom they fought
for the freedom of Middle- Earth.

GALADRIEL
Victory was near!

GALADRIEL
But the power of the Ring could not be
undone.

GALADRIEL
It was in this moment..when all hope had
faded, that Isildur, son of the king,
took up his father's sword.

GALADRIEL
Sauron, the enemy of the Free Peoples of
Middle Earth, was defeated.

GALADRIEL
The Ring passed to Isildur...who had this
one chance to destroy evil forever.

GALADRIEL
But the hearts of Men are easily
corrupted. And the Ring of Power has a
will of its own.

GALADRIEL
It betrayed Isildur to his death.

GALADRIEL
And some things that should not have been
forgotten...were lost.

GALADRIEL
History became legend...legend became
myth.

GALADRIEL
And for two and a half thousand years the
Ring passed out of all knowledge.

GALADRIEL
Until, when chance came, it ensnared a
new bearer!

GOLLUM
My Precious...

GALADRIEL
The Ring came to the creature Gollum, who
took it deep into the tunnels of the
Misty Mountains.

GALADRIEL
And there, it consumed him. A RASPY VOICE
mutters in the half light...

GOLLUM
It came to me. My own. My love...
(ecstatic whisper)
My preciousness.

GALADRIEL
The Ring brought to Gollum unnatural long
life. For five hundred years it poisoned
his mind. And in the gloom of Gollum's
cave...

GALADRIEL
It waited.

GALADRIEL
Darkness crept back into the forests of
the world. Rumor grew of a Shadow in the
East...whispers of a nameless fear. And
the Ring of Power perceived...its time
had now come. It abandoned Gollum.

GALADRIEL
But something happened then the Ring did
not intend...

GALADRIEL
It was picked up by the most unlikely
creature imaginable...

BILBO
(to himself)
What's this?

GALADRIEL
A Hobbit....Bilbo Baggins of the Shire.

BILBO
(surprised)
A Ring.

GOLLUM
Lost! Lost! My Precious is lost!!

GALADRIEL
For the time will soon come when Hobbits
will shape the fortunes of all.

STOP

FRODO
You're late.

GANDALF
A Wizard is never late, Frodo Baggins,
nor is he early. He arrives precisely
when he means to.

FRODO
It's wonderful to see you, Gandalf!

GANDALF
You didn't think I'd miss your Uncle
Bilbo's birthday?

FRODO
What news of the outside world? Tell me
everything!

GANDALF
What, everything? Far too eager and
curious for a Hobbit. Most unnatural...

GANDALF
Well, what can I tell you? Life in the
wide world goes on much as if it has past
age. Full of its own comings and goings,
scarcely even aware of the existence of
Hobbits...

GANDALF
...for which I am very thankful.

STOP

GANDALF
Ah, the long expected party. So, how is
the old rascal? I hear it's going to be
a Party of Special Magnificence.

FRODO
You know Bilbo...he's got he whole place
in an uproar.

GANDALF
Oh, well...that should please him.

FRODO
Half the Shire's been invited...

GANDALF
Good gracious, me.

FRODO
He's up to something.

GANDALF
Oh, really?

FRODO
Alright then..keep your secrets. Before
you came along we Bagginses were very
well thought of.

GANDALF
Indeed?

FRODO
Never had any adventures or did anything
unexpected.

GANDALF
If you're referring to the incident with
the Dragon...I was barely involved...all
I did was give your Uncle a little nudge
out the door.

FRODO
Whatever you did...you've been officially
labelled as a Disturber of the Peace.

GANDALF
Oh, really?

STOP

FRODO
Gandalf... I'm glad you're back. Frodo
leaps expertly from the cart. Gandalf
smiles.

GANDALF
So am I, dear boy...so am I

STOP

BILBO
No, thank you! We don't want any more
visitors, well wishers, or distant
relations.

GANDALF
And what about very old friends?

BILBO
Gandalf?

GANDALF
Bilbo Baggins!

BILBO
My dear Gandalf!

GANDALF
It's good to see you. One hundred and
eleven years old, who would believe it!

GANDALF
You haven't aged a day! Gandalf and Bilbo
laugh together and enter Bag End.

BILBO
Come on, come in! Welcome, welcome!!

STOP

BILBO
Tea? Or maybe something stronger... I've
a few bottles of the Old Winyard left,
1296...a very good year, almost as old as
I am. It was laid down by my father. What
say we open one, eh?

BILBO
I was expecting you some time last week.
Not that it matters, you come and go as
you please, always have done, always
will.

BILBO
You've caught me a bit unprepared, I'm
afraid...we've only got cold chicken, bit
of pickle, some cheese here...ooh, no,
that might be a little risky...

BILBO
Er, we've got raspberry jam and apple
tart...got some custard somewhere. Not
much for Afters, I'm afraid. Oh
no...we're alright...I've just found some
sponge cake. Nice little snack. Hope
it's enough.
I could do you some eggs if you like?

GANDALF
Just tea, thank you.

BILBO
Oh..right. You don't mind if...?

GANDALF
No, not at all. Go ahead.

STOP

MRS. SACKVILLE BAGGINS
Bilbo Baggins, you open this door..I know you're in there.

BILBO
I'm not home.

BILBO
I've got to get away from these
confounded relatives, hanging on the bell
all day, never giving me a moment's
peace. I want to see mountains
again...mountains, Gandalf... and then
find somewhere quiet where I can finish
my book...Oh, Tea!

GANDALF
So, you mean to go through with your
plan, then?

BILBO
Yes, yes...it's all inhand. All the
arrangements are made.

GANDALF
Frodo suspects something.

BILBO
'Course he does, he's a Baggins...not
some block headed Bracegirdle from
Hardbottle!

GANDALF
You will tell him, won't you?

BILBO
Yes, yes.

GANDALF
He's very fond of you.

BILBO
I know. He'd probably come with me if I
asked him. I think, in his heart,
Frodo's still in love with the Shire, the
woods and the fields... little rivers.
Bilbo stands gazing out of the kitchen
window.

BILBO
I am old, Gandalf... Bilbo looks at
Gandalf sadly...

BILBO
I know I don't look it, but I'm beginning
to feel it in my heart.

Bilbo's fingers close around his waistcoat pocket...gripping
a small, unseen object.

BILBO
I feel thin...sort of stretched, like
butter scraped over too much bread. I
need a holiday...a very long holiday and
I don't expect I shall return...in fact,
I mean not to.

STOP

BILBO
Old Toby, the finest weed in
Southfarthing!

BILBO
Ohhhh, Gandalf my old friend...this will be a
night to remember!

STOP

FRODO
Go on, Sam, ask Rosie for a dance.

SAM
I think I'll just have myself another
ale.

FRODO
Oh, no you don't. Go on.

Sam goes to drain his glass... suddenly it is snatched out of
his hands as Frodo thrusts him into the middle of a passing
throng of dancers.

STOP

BILBO
So, there I was...at the mercy of three
monstrous trolls...Have you ever heard of
a troll? Do you know what a Troll is?
Great big nasty twenty foot high smelly
things..and they're arguing...arguing
about how they were going to cook us!

BILBO
Whether it be turned on a spit or minced
in a pie or whether they were going to
sit on us one by one and squash us into
jelly! But they spent so long arguing
the whether-to's and why-for's that the
sun's first light crept over the top of
the trees...and turned them all to stone!

STOP

MERRY
No, no..the big one...the big one!

MERRY
You're supposed to stick it in the
ground!

PIPPIN
It is in the ground.

MERRY
Outside!

PIPPIN
It was your idea.

STOP

FRODO
Bilbo! Watch out for the dragon!!

BILBO
Dragon? Nonsense...hasn1t been a dragon
in these parts for a thousand years!

STOP

MERRY
That was good!

PIPPIN
Let's get another one!

GANDALF
Meridoc Brandybuck and Peregrin Took...I
might have known!

STOP

FRODO
Speech!

BILBO
My dear Bagginses, and Boffins, tooks and
Brandybucks...Grubbs, Chubbs,
Hornblowers, Bolgers, Bracegirdles and
Proudfoots...

ODO PROUDFOOT
Proudfeet!

BILBO
Today is my one hundred and eleventh
birthday. Yes, and alas...Eleventy- one
years is far too short a time to live
among such excellent and admirable
Hobbits! Tremendous outburst of approval!

BILBO
I don't know half of you half as well as
I should like; and I like less than half
of you as well as well as you deserve.

BILBO
I have..things to do and I have put this
off for far too long... CLOSE ON: BILBO'S
knuckles turn white as he tightens his
grip on the small object behind his back.

BILBO
I regret to announce, this is the end. I
am going now. I bid you all a very fond
farewell!! Bilbo looks across at Frodo,
hesitates... then...

BILBO
Goodbye.

STOP

GANDALF
I suppose you think that was terribly
clever?

BILBO
Come on, Gandalf! Did you see their
faces?

GANDALF
There are many magic rings in the world,
Bilbo Baggins, and none of them should be
used lightly.

BILBO
It was just a bit of fun. Oh, you're
probably right as usual.

GANDALF
You will keep an eye on Frodo, won't you?

BILBO
I'm leaving everything to him.

GANDALF
What about this ring of yours? Is that
staying too?

BILBO
Yes, yes, it's in an envelope...over
there on the mantelpiece.

BILBO
No, wait. It's here in my pocket. Isn't
that...isn't' that odd now? Yet, after
all, why not? Why shouldn't I keep it?

GANDALF
I think you should leave the Ring behind,
Bilbo. Is that so hard?

BILBO
Well, no...and yes. Now it comes to it,
I don't feel like parting with it. It's
mine. I found it. It came to me!

GANDALF
There's no need to get angry.

BILBO
Well, if I'm angry, it's your fault! It's
mine. My own, my precious.

GANDALF
Precious? It's been called that before,
but not by you.

BILBO
So? What business is it of yours what I
do with my own things?

GANDALF
I think you've had that ring quite long
enough.

BILBO
You want it for yourself!

GANDALF
Bilbo Baggins do not take me for some
conjurer of cheap tricks!

GANDALF
I am not trying to rob you. I am trying
to help you. Sobbing, Bilbo runs to
Gandalf and hugs him.

GANDALF
All you long years we've been
friends...trust me as you once did. Let
it go!

BILBO
You're right, Gandalf...the ring must go
to Frodo.

BILBO
It's late, the road is long... yes, it is
time.

GANDALF
Bilbo?

BILBO
Hmmm?

GANDALF
The ring is still in your pocket.

BILBO
Oh, yes.

STOP

BILBO
I've thought up and ending for my
book..."And he lived happily ever after
to the end of his days."

GANDALF
I'm sure you will, my dear friend.

BILBO
Goodbye, Gandalf.

GANDALF
Goodbye Bilbo.

GANDALF
Until our next meeting.

STOP

BILBO
It's mine, my own, my precious.

GANDALF
Riddles in the dark.

FRODO
Bilbo! Bilbo!

GANDALF
My precious...precious..

FRODO
He's gone, hasn't he? Frodo steps into
the living room.

FRODO
He talked for so long about leaving...I
didn't think he'd really do it.

GANDALF
...my own.

FRODO
Gandalf?

GANDALF
Bilbo's ring.

GANDALF
He's gone to stay with the Elves. He's
left you Bag End...

GANDALF
...along with all his possessions.

GANDALF
The ring is yours now. But it somewhere
out of sight. Gandalf rises hurriedly and
starts to gather his things.

FRODO
Where are you going?

GANDALF
I have some things I must see to.

FRODO
What things?

GANDALF
Questions. Questions that need
answering.

FRODO
You've only just arrived!I don't
understand...

GANDALF
Neither do I. Keep it secret, keep it
safe.

STOP

BLACK RIDER
Shire? Baggins?

FARMER MAGGOT
There's no Bagginses around here! They
are all up in Hobbiton...that way.

STOP

GANDALF
Is it secret? Is it safe?

FRODO
What are you doing?

GANDALF
Hold out your hand, Frodo...it is quite
cool.

GANDALF
What can you see? Can you see anything?

FRODO
Nothing...there's nothing. Wait...

GANDALF
...these are markings.

FRODO
It's some form of Elvish...I can't read
it.

GANDALF
There are few who can...the language is
that of Mordor, which I will not utter
here.

GANDALF
In the common tongue it says, "One ring to rule them all, One
ring to find them, One ring to bring them all, and in the
darkness bind them."

GANDALF
This is the one ring forged by the dark
lord, Sauron, in the fires of Mt
Doom...taken by Isildur from the hand of
Sauron himself.

FRODO
Bilbo found it...in Gollom's cave.

GANDALF
For sixty years the ring lay quiet in
Bilbo's keeping, prolonging his life,
delaying old age...but no longer, Frodo.
Evil is stirring in Mordor. The ring has
awoken. It has heard its master's call.

FRODO
But he was destroyed...Sauron was
destroyed.

GANDALF
No, Frodo. The spirit of Sauron has
endured. His life force is bound to the
ring and the ring survived. Sauron has
returned. His Orcs have multiplied...his
fortress of Barad- dur is rebuilt in the
land of Mordor. Sauron needs only this
ring to cover all the lands in the second
darkness. He is seeking it, seeking it,
all his thought is bent on it. For the
ring yearns, above all else, to return to
the hand of its master: they are one, the
ring and the dark lord. Frodo, he must
never find out. SUDDENLY Frodo scoops up
the Ring.

FRODO
Alright!

FRODO
We put it away, we keep it hidden! We
never speak of it again. No one know
it's here, do they? Gandalf shifts
uncomfortably.

FRODO
Do they, Gandalf?

GANDALF
There is one other who knew that Bilbo
had the Ring. I looked everywhere for
the creature Gollum, but the enemy found
him first.

GANDALF
I don't know how long they tortured
him...but amidst the endless screams and
inane babble, they discerned two words.

GOLLUM
(screaming)
S...Shire! Baggins!

FRODO
Shire! Baggins! That will lead them
here!

FRODO
Take it! Take it!

GANDALF
No, Frodo...

FRODO
You must take it.

GANDALF
You cannot offer me this ring.

FRODO
I'm giving it to you!

GANDALF
Don't tempt me, Frodo. I dare not take
it, not even to keep it safe.

GANDALF
Understand, Frodo...I would use this Ring
from a desire to do good...but through
me, it would wield a power too great and
terrible to imagine.

FRODO
But it cannot stay in the Shire!

GANDALF
No, no it can't.

FRODO
What must I do?

GANDALF
You must leave, and leave quickly. Get
out of the Shire.

FRODO
Where? Where shall I go?

GANDALF
Make for the village of Bree.

FRODO
Bree? What about you?

GANDALF
I will be waiting for you at the Inn of
the Prancing Pony.

FRODO
And the ring will be safe there?

GANDALF
I don't know, Frodo. I don't have any
answers. I must see the Head of my
Order. He is both wise and powerful.
Trust me, Frodo. He'll know what to go.

GANDALF
You'll have to leave the name of Baggins
behind you...for that name is not safe
outside the Shire.

GANDALF
Travel only by day and stay off the road.

FRODO
I can cut across country easily enough.

GANDALF
My dear Frodo, Hobbits really are amazing
creatures. You can learn all that there
is to know about their ways in a month,
and yet, after a hundred years, they can
still surprise you.

GANDALF
Get down!

GANDALF
Confound it all! Samwise Gamgee, have
you been eavesdropping?

SAM
I ain't been dropping no eaves, sir!
Honest. I was just cutting the grass
under the window there, if you follow
me...

GANDALF
It's a little late for trimming the
hedges, don't you think?

SAM
I heard raised voices...

GANDALF
What did you hear? Speak!

SAM
Nothing important...that is, I heard a
good deal about a ring...and a Dark Lord.
And something about the end of the world,
but...Please, Mister Gandalf, sir, don't
hurt me! Don't turn me into anything
unnatural!

GANDALF
No?

GANDALF
Perhaps not. I've thought of a better
use for you.

STOP

GANDALF
Come along, Samwise...keep up...

GANDALF
Be careful, both of you. The Enemy has
many spies in his service, many ways of
hearing...birds, beasts...

GANDALF
Is it safe?

GANDALF
Never put it on, for then the agents of
the Dark Lord will be drawn to its
power...Always remember, Frodo, the ring
is trying to get back to its master...it
wants to be found.

STOP

SAM
This is it.

FRODO
This is what?

SAM
If I take one more step it'll be the
farthest away from home I've ever been.

FRODO
Come on, Sam.

FRODO
Remember what Bilbo used to say...it's a
dangerous business...

BILBO
... it's a dangerous business, Frodo,
going out your door...you step onto the
road, and if you don't keep your feet,
there's not knowing where you might be
swept off to.

STOP

SARUMAN
Smoke rises once more from the mountain
of doom...the shadow takes shape in the
darkness of Mordor; the hour grows
late...and Gandalf the Grey rides to
Isengard seeking my counsel...

SARUMAN
For that is why you have come, is it not,
my old friend?

GANDALF
Saruman!

SARUMAN
Are you sure of this?

GANDALF
Beyond any doubt.

SARUMAN
So the ring of power has been found?

GANDALF
All these long years it was in the Shire,
under my very nose.

SARUMAN
And yet you did not have the wit to see
it! Your love of the Halfling's leaf has
clearly slowed your mind.

GANDALF
We still have time...time enough to
counter Sauron...if we act quickly.

SARUMAN
Time? What time do you think we have?

SARUMAN
Sauron has regained much of his former
strength. He cannot yet take physical
form...but his spirit has lost none of
its potency. Concealed within his
fortress, the lord of Mordor sees all.
His gaze pierces cloud, shadow, earth,
and flesh. You know of what I speak,
Gandalf...a great Eye, lidless, wreathed
in flame.

GANDALF
The eye of Sauron.

SARUMAN
He is gathering all evil to him.

SARUMAN
Very soon he will have summoned an army
great enough to launch an assault upon
Middle earth.

GANDALF
You know this? How?

SARUMAN
I have seen it.

GANDALF
A palantir is a dangerous tool, Saruman.

SARUMAN
Why? Why should we fear to use it?

GANDALF
They are not all accounted for, the lost
seeing-stones...we do not know who else
may be watching.

SARUMAN
The hour is later than you think.
Sauron's forces are already moving...the
Nine have left Minas Morgul.

GANDALF
The nine!

SARUMAN
They crossed the river Isen in
Midsummer's eve, disguised as riders in
black.

GANDALF
They have reached the Shire?

SARUMAN
They will find the ring...and kill the
one who carries it.

SARUMAN
You did not seriously think a Hobbit
could contend with the will of Sauron?
There are none who can.

SARUMAN
Against the power of Mordor, there can be
no victory. We must join with him,
Gandalf. We must join with Sauron. It
would be wise, my friend.

GANDALF
Tell me, friend, when did Saruman the
wise abandon reason for madness?

SARUMAN
I gave you the chance of aiding me
willingly, but you have elected the way
of pain.

STOP

SAM
Mister Frodo. Mister Frodo!

SAM
I thought I lost you.

FRODO
What are you talking about?

SAM
It's just something Gandalf said...

FRODO
What did he say?

SAM
He said..."Don't you leave him, Samwise
Gamgee."
And I don't mean to.

FRODO
Sam...we're still in the Shire...what
could possibly happen?

PIPPIN
Frodo! Merry, it's Frodo Baggins.

MERRY
Hello Frodo!

SAM
What's the meaning of this!

MERRY
Sam, hold this...

SAM
You've been into Farmer Maggot's crop!

FARMER MAGGOT
Who's that in my field! Get out of it!
Get out of my field, you young varmits!
I'll show you...get out of my corn!

MERRY
I don't know why he's so upset, it's only
a couple of carrots.

PIPPIN
And some cabbages...and those three bags
of potatoes that we lifted last week.
And then the mushrooms the week before.

MERRY
Yes, Pippin, my point is, he's clearly
over reacting.

PIPPIN
Run!

STOP

PIPPIN
That was close.

MERRY
Ow...I think I've broken something.

SAM
Trust a Brandybuck and a Took.

MERRY
What? That was just a detour...a
shortcut.

SAM
A shortcut to what?

PIPPIN
Mushrooms!

FRODO
I think we should get off the road.

FRODO
Get off the road!

STOP

MERRY
What was that?

SAM
Anything?

FRODO
Nothing.

PIPPIN
What is going on?

MERRY
The Black rider was looking for
something...or someone...Frodo?

SAM
Get down!

FRODO
I have to leave the Shire...Sam and I
must get to Bree.

Merry looks at his friend...realizing Frodo is in deep
trouble.

MERRY
Right...Buckleberry Ferry...follow me !

MERRY
There's another one!! Frodo, this way!

MERRY
Frodo, follow me!

MERRY
Get the ropes, Sam.

SAM
Frodo!

FRODO
How far to the nearest crossing?

MERRY
The brandwine bridge...twenty miles.

STOP

FRODO
Come on.

GATEKEEPER
What do you want?

FRODO
We're headed for the prancing pony.

GATEKEEPER
Hobbits! Four Hobbits, and what's more,
out of the Shire by your talk. What
business brings you to Bree?

FRODO
We wish to stay at the inn...our business
is our own.

GATEKEEPER
All right, young sir, I meant no offense.

GATEKEEPER
It's my job to ask questions after
nightfall. There's talk of strange fold
abroad...can't be too careful.

STOP

FRODO
Excuse me.

BUTTERBUR
Good evening, little masters. If you're
seeking accommodation, we've got some
nice, cozy Hobbit sized rooms available,
Mister..ah...

FRODO
Underhill...my name's Underbill.

BUTTERBUR
Underhill? Hmmmm.

FRODO
We're friends of Gandalf the Grey...can
you tell him we've arrived?

BUTTERBUR
Gandalf...Gandalf...Oh...
Oh yes! I remember...elderly chap...big
grey beard...pointy hat?

BUTTERBUR
Not seen him for six months.

SAM
What do we do now?

FRODO
Sam, he'll be here.He'll come.

PIPPIN
What's that?

MERRY
This, my friend, is a pint.

PIPPIN
It comes in pints? I'm getting one!

SAM
You've had a whole half already.

SAM
That fellow's done nothing but stare at
you since we've arrived.

FRODO
Excuse me, that man in the corner, who is
he?

BUTTERBUR
He's one of them Rangers; they're
dangerous folk they are, wandering the
wilds. What his right name is, I never
heard, but round here he's known as
Strider.

STOP

PIPPIN
Baggins? Sure, I know a Baggins...he's
over there...

PIPPIN
Frodo Baggins. He's my second cousin
once removed, on his mother's side and my
third cousin twice removed on his
father's side...if you follow me.

STOP

STRIDER
You draw far too much attention to
yourself...Mister Underhill

FRODO
What do you want?

STRIDER
A little more caution from you...that is
no trinket you carry.

FRODO
I carry nothing.

STRIDER
Indeed? I can usually avoid being seen
if I wish, but to disappear entirely...
that is a rare gift.

FRODO
Who are you?

STRIDER
Are you frightened?

FRODO
Yes.

STRIDER
Not nearly frightened enough. I know
what hunts you.

SAM
Let him go or I'll have you, Longshanks!

STRIDER
You have a stout heart, little Hobbit,
but that alone won't save you...You can
no longer wait for the Wizard, Frodo.
They're coming.

STOP

FRODO
Who are they?

STRIDER
They were once men.

STRIDER
Great Kings of men. Then Sauron the
deceiver gave to them Nine Rings of
Power. Blinded by their greed they took
them without question, one by one falling
into darkness and now they are slaves to
his will.

STRIDER
They are the Nazgul, Ringwraiths, neither
living or dead. At all times they feel
the presence of the ring...drawn to the
power of the one..they will never stop
hunting you.

STOP

FRODO
Where are you taking us?

STRIDER
Into the wild.

MERRY
How do, we know this Strider is a friend
of Gandalf?

FRODO
We have no choice but to trust him.

STRIDER
But where is he leading us?

STRIDER
To Rivendell, Master Gamgee...to the
house of Elrond.

SAM
Did you hear that, Bill? Rivendell!
We're going to see the Elves!

STOP

STRIDER
Gentlemen, we do not stop until
nightfall.

PIPPIN
What about breakfast?

STRIDER
You've already had it.

PIPPIN
We've had one, yes...but what about
Second Breakfast?

MERRY
I don't think he knows about second
breakfast, Pip.

PIPPIN
What about Elvenses, Luncheon, Afternoon
Tea, dinner...he knows about them,
doesn't he?

MERRY
I wouldn't count on it.

An apple is thrown to Merry, who deftly catches it. Another,
aimed at Pippin, catches him on the forehead.

STOP

SARUMAN
The power of Isengard is at your command,
Sauron, Lord of the Earth.

SAURONS VOICE
Build me an army worth of Mordor.

ORC OVERSEER
What orders from Mordor, my Lord. What
does the eye command?

SARUMAN
We have work to do.

STOP

ORC OVERSEER
The trees are strong, my Lord. Their
roots go deep.

SARUMAN
Rip them all down.

STOP

STRIDER
This was once the great Watchtower of
Amon Sul. We shall rest here tonight.

STRIDER
There are for you. Keep them close. I'm
going to have a look around. Stay here.

STOP

FRODO
What are you doing?

MERRY
Tomatoes, sausages, and crispy bacon.

SAM
We saved some for you, Mister Frodo.

FRODO
Put it out, you fools! Put it out!

PIPPIN
Oh, that's nice...ash on my tomatoes!

FRODO
Go!

STOP

SAM
Mister Frodo!
Help him, Strider!

STRIDER
He's been stabbed by a Morgul blade.

SAM
Do something.

STRIDER
This is beyond my skill to heal.
He needs Elvish medicine. Strider lifts
Frodo onto his shoulders.

STRIDER
Hurry!

SAM
We are six days from Rivendell.

STRIDER
Hold on, Frodo.

SAM
He'll never make it!

FRODO
Gandalf...Gandalf?

STOP

PIPPIN
Is he going to die?

STRIDER
No. He is passing into the shadow world,
he will soon become a wraith like them.

MERRY
They're close.

STRIDER
Sam, do you know the Athelas plant? Sam
looks blank.

SAM
Athelas?

STRIDER
Kingsfoil.

SAM
Kingsfoil. Aye.It's a weed.

STRIDER
It may help to slow the poison. Hurry!

ARWEN
What is this? A Ranger caught off his
guard?

STOP

ARWEN
Frodo, Im Arwen...telin let thaed. I am
Arwen, I have come here to help you.
Hear my voice, come back to the light. Frodo's
eyes close.

PIPPIN
Who is she?

ARWEN
Frodo?

SAM
She's an elf.

ARWEN
He's fading...he's not gong to last. We
must get him to my father.

ARWEN
I have been looking for you for two days.

PIPPIN
Where are you taking him?

ARWEN
There are five Wraiths behind you, where
the other four are, I do not know.

STRIDER
Stay with the hobbits...I'll
send horses for you.

ARWEN
I'm the faster rider.

STRIDER
The road is too dangerous.

ARWEN
If I can cross the river, the
power of my people can protect him.

PIPPIN
What are they saying?

ARWEN
I do not fear them.

STRIDER
Arwen...ride hard, don't look back.

ARWEN
Noro Lim, Asfaloth, Noro Lim!

SAM
What are you doing! Those Wraiths are
still out there!

STOP

WITCH KING
Give up the Halfling, she-elf! She draws
her sword and yells at the Witch King.

ARWEN
If you want him, come and claim him.

ARWEN
(Elvish)
Non o Chithaeglir, lasto Beth daer: Rimmo
nin Briunen Dan in Ulaer!

ARWEN
Nin o Chitaeglir, lasto Beth daer: Rimmo
nin Bruinen Dan in Ulaer!

ARWEN
No, no...Frodo, no! Frodo, don't give
in...not now!

ARWEN
What grace is given me, let it pass to
him. Let him be spared. Save him.

STOP

FRODO
Where am I?

GANDALF
You are in the House of Elrond, and it is
ten o'clock in the morning on October the
twenty-fourth, if you want to know.

FRODO
Gandalf!

GANDALF
Yes, I'm here and you're lucky to be
here, too. A few more hours and you
would have been beyond our aid. You have
some strength in you, my dear Hobbit.

FRODO
What happened, Gandalf? Why didn't you
meet us?

GANDALF
I'm sorry Frodo.

GANDALF
I was delayed.

STOP

SARUMAN
Get up! Embrace the power of the
Ring or embrace your own destruction!

GANDALF
There is only one Lord of the Ring. Only
one who can bend it to his will...and he
does not share power.

SARUMAN
So you have chosen death.

STOP

FRODO
Gandalf! What is it? Gandalf returns his
attention to Frodo.

GANDALF
Nothing, Frodo...

SAM
Frodo! Frodo! Bless you, you're awake!!

GANDALF
Sam has hardly left your side.

SAM
We were worried about you--weren't we,
Mister Gandalf?

GANDALF
By the skills of Lord Elrond, you're
beginning to mend.

ELROND
Welcome to Rivendell, Frodo Baggins.

ELROND
You have found your way to the last
homely house east of the sea. The elves
of Imladris have dwelt within this valley
for three thousand years, though few of
my kin now remain.

STOP

FRODO
(reading)
"There and back again: A Hobbit's tale"
by Bilbo Baggins.

FRODO
This is wonderful.

BILBO
I meant to go back...wander the paths of
Mirkwood, visit Laketown, see the Lonely
Mountain again...but age, it seems, has
finally caught up with me.

FRODO
I miss the Shire...I spent all my
childhood pretending I was off somewhere
else...off with you, on one of your
adventures...
But my own adventure, turned out to be
quite different...I'm not like you,
Bilbo.

BILBO
My dear boy...

STOP

SAM
No, what have I forgotten?

FRODO
Packed already?

SAM
No harm in being prepared. Frodo strolls
to the edge of the Balcony.

FRODO
I thought you wanted to see the Elves,
Sam?

SAM
I do...

FRODO
More than anything.

SAM
I did. It's just...we did what Gandalf
wanted, didn't we? We got the Ring this
far, to Rivendell...and I thought...
seeing as how you're on the mend, we'd be
off soon. Off home.

FRODO
You're right, Sam. Frodo looks at Sam...

FRODO
...we did what we set out to do.

FRODO
The ring will be safe in Rivendell. I am
ready to go home.

STOP

ELROND
His strength returns.

GANDALF
That wound will never fully heal. He will
carry it the rest of his life.

ELROND
And yet to have come so far still bearing
the Ring...the hobbit has shown
extraordinary resilience to its evil.

GANDALF
It is a burden he should never have to
had to bear. We can ask no more of Frodo.

ELROND
Gandalf, the enemy is moving. Sauron's
forces are massing in the east. His eye
is fixed on Rivendell. And Saruman, you
tell me, has betrayed us. Our list of
allies grows thin.

GANDALF
His treachery runs deeper than you know.
By foul craft, Saruman has crossed Orc
with Goblin Men...he is breeding an army
in the caverns of Isengard. An army that
can move in Sunlight and cover great
distance at speed. Saruman is coming for
the Ring.

ELROND
This evil cannot be concealed by the
power of the Elves...We do not have the
strength to fight both Mordor and
Isengard...Gandalf...the ring cannot stay
here.

ELROND
This peril belongs to all Middle earth.
They must decide how to end it. Not just
for themselves but for those who come
after. Elrond approaches Gandalf.

ELROND
The time of the Elves is over. My people
are leaving these shores. Who will you
look to when we have gone? The dwarves?
They hide in their mountains seeking
riches. They care nothing for the
troubles of others.

GANDALF
It is in Men that we must place our hope.

ELROND
Men? Men are weak.The race of Men is
failing. The blood of Numenor is all but
spent, its pride anddignity forgotten.
It is because of menthe Ring survives.

ELROND
I was there, Gandalf...I was there three
thousand years ago when Isildur took the
ring.

ELROND
I was there the day the strength of Men
failed.

STOP

ELROND
Isildur...hurry...follow me!

ELROND
I let Isildur into the heart of Mount
Doom, where the ring was forged: the one
place it could be destroyed.

ELROND
Cast it into the fire...destroy it!

ISILDUR
No.

ELROND
Isildur!!

STOP

ELROND
It should have ended that day, but evil
was allowed to endure. Isildur kept the
Ring...and the line of Kings was broken.
There's no strength left in the world of
Men. They're scattered, divided,
leaderless.

GANDALF
There is one who could unite them, one
who could re claim the thrown of Gondor.

ELROND
He turned from that path a long time ago.
He has chosen exile.

STOP

BOROMIR
The shards of Narsil...the blade that cut
the Ring from Sauron's hand.

BOROMIR
Still sharp.

BOROMIR
But no more than a broken heirloom.

STOP

ARWEN
Why do you fear the past? You are
Isildur's heir...not Isildur himself. You
are not bound to his fate.

STRIDER
The same blood flows in my veins...the
same weakness...

ARWEN
Your time will come. You will face the
same evil...and you will defeat it.
The shadow does not hold
sway yet...not over you and not over me.

STOP

ARWEN
Do you remember when we first met?

STRIDER
I thought I had strayed into a dream.

ARWEN
Long years have passed...you
did not have the care you carry now.

ARWEN
Do you remember what I told you?

STRIDER
You said you'd bind yourself to me,
forsaking the immortal life of your
people.

ARWEN
And to that I hold. I would rather share
one lifetime with you than face all the
ages of this world alone.

ARWEN
I choose a mortal live.

STRIDER
You cannot give me this.

ARWEN
It is mine to give to whom I will, like
my heart.

STOP

ELROND
Strangers from distant lands ... friends
of old. You have been summoned here to
answer the threat of Mordor. Middle-earth
stands upon the brink of destruction.
None can escape it. You will unite...or
you will fall. Each race is bound to this
fate...this one doom...

ELROND
Bring forth the ring, Frodo.

BOROMIR
So it is true!

LEGOLAS
Sauron's Ring! The ring of power!

GIMLI
The doom of man!

BOROMIR
It is a gift...a gift to the foes of
Mordor! Why not use this Ring? Long has
my father, the Steward of Gondor, held
the forces of Mordor at bay...by the
blood of our people are your lands kept
safe. Give Gondor the weapon of the
enemy...let us use it against him!

STRIDER
You cannot wield it. None of us can.
The one ring answers to Sauron alone...it
has no other master.

BOROMIR
And what would a ranger know of this
matter?

LEGOLAS
This is no mere Ranger. He is Aragorn,
son of Arathorn. You owe him your
allegiance.

BOROMIR
Aragorn? This is Isildur's heir?

LEGOLAS
And heir to the throne of Gondor.

ARAGORN
Legolas...Sit down, Legolas..

BOROMIR
Gondor needs no king.

GANDALF
Aragorn is right...we cannot use it.

ELROND
You have only one choice..the ring must
be destroyed.

GIMLI
Then...what are we waiting for?

ELROND
The ring cannot be destroyed, Gimli, son
of Gloin, by any craft that we here possess.
The ring was made in the fires of Mount Doom...
only there can it be unmade. It must be
taken deep into Mordor, and cast back into
the fiery chasm from whence it came.
One of you must do this.

BOROMIR
One does not simply walk into Mordor. Its
black gates are guarded by more than just
Orcs. There is evil there that does not
sleep and the Great Eye is ever watchful.
It is a barren wasteland, riddled with
fire and ash and dust...the very air you
breathe is a poisonous fume. Not with
ten thousand men could you do this. It
is folly.

LEGOLAS
Have you heard nothing Lord Elrond has
said? The ring must be destroyed.

GIMLI
And I suppose you think you're the one to
do it?

BOROMIR
And if we fail, what then? What happens
when Sauron takes back what is his?

GIMLI
I will be dead before I see the Ring in
the hands of an Elf!

GIMLI
Never trust an Elf!

GANDALF
Do you not understand? While we bicker
among ourselves, Sauron's power grows!
No one will escape it. You will all be
destroyed, your homes burnt and your
families put to the sword!

FRODO
I will take it...I will take it...I will
take the Ring to Mordor.

FRODO
Though...I do not know the way. Gandalf
rises to his feet.

GANDALF
I will help you bear this burden, Frodo
Baggins, as long as it is yours to bear.

ARAGORN
If, by my life or death, I can protect
you, I will.

ARAGORN
...you have my sword.

LEGOLAS
And you have my bow.

GIMLI
And my axe.

BOROMIR
You carry the fate of us all, little one.

BOROMIR
If this is indeed the will of the
Council, then Gondor will see it done.

SAM
Here!
Mister Frodo's not going anywhere without me.

ELROND
No, Indeed...it is hardly possible to
separate you...even when he is summoned
to a secret council and you are not.

MERRY
Oi! We're coming too! You'll have to
send us home tied up in a sack to stop
us.

PIPPIN
Anyway...you need people of intelligence
on this sort of
mission...quest...thing...

MERRY
Well, that rules you out, Pip.

ELROND
Nine companions ... so be it.
You shall be the "Fellowship of the ring"

PIPPIN
Great. Where are we going?

STOP

BILBO
My old sword "Sting"...here, take it!

FRODO
It's so light!

BILBO
Yes, yes, made by the Elves, you know.
The blade glows blue when Orcs are
close...and it's times like that, my lad,
when you have to be extra careful.

BILBO
Here's a pretty thing. Mithril, as light
as a feather, and as hard as dragon
scales. Let me see you put it on. Come
on.

BILBO
Oh! My old Ring...

BILBO
I should very much like to hold it again,
one last time.

BILBO
I'm sorry, that I brought this upon you,
my boy...I'm sorry that you must carry
this burden. I'm sorry for everything.

STOP

BOROMIR
Get away from the blade, Pippin...on your
toes...good, very good...I want you to
react, not think.

SAM
Should not be too hard...

BOROMIR
Move your feet.

MERRY
Quite good, Pippin.

PIPPIN
Thanks.

GIMLI
If anyone were to ask for my opinion,
which I note they have not, I would say
we are taking the long way round.
Gandalf, we can pass through the Mines of
Moria. My cousin, Balin, would give us a
royal welcome. Gandalf clearly thinks
that is a bad idea.

GANDALF
No, Gimli. I would not take the road
through Moria unless I had no other
choice.

SAM
What is that?

GIMLI
Nothing...it's just a wisp of a cloud.

BOROMIR
It's moving fast...against the wind.

LEGOLAS
Crebain from Dunland!

ARAGORN
Hide!

BOROMIR
Merry..Pippin...Sam...take cover!

GANDALF
Spies of Saruman.The passage South is
being watched.

GANDALF
We must take the pass of Caradhras!

STOP

ARAGORN
Boromir?

BOROMIR
It is a strange fate that we should
suffer so much fear and doubt over so
small a thing...such a little thing.

ARAGORN
Boromir...give the ring to Frodo.

BOROMIR
As you wish. I care not.

STOP

SARUMAN
So, Gandalf...you try to lead them over
Caradhras. And if that fails...where
then will you go? THE FELLOWSHIP
struggles through the snow.

SARUMAN
If the mountain defeats you, will you
risk a more dangerous road?

LEGOLAS
There is a fell voice in the air.

GANDALF
It's Saruman.

ARAGORN
He's trying to bring down the mountain.
Gandalf! We must turn back!

GANDALF
No!

GANDALF
Sleep Caradhras, be still, lie
still, hold your wrath.

BOROMIR
We must get off the mountain! Make for
the gap of Rohan and take the West road
to my city.

ARAGORN
The Gap of Rohan takes us too close to
Isengard.

GIMLI
We cannot pass over the mountain. Let us
go under it. Let us go through the mines
of Moria.

SARUMAN
Moria. You fear to go into those mines,
don't you? The dwarves delved too
greedily and too deep.

SARUMAN
You know what they awoke in, the darkness
of Khazad-dum. Shadow and flame.

GANDALF
Let the ringbearer decide.

GANDALF
Frodo?

FRODO
We will go through the mines.

GANDALF
So be it.

STOP

GIMLI
The walls of Moria!

GANDALF
Ithildin...it mirrors only starlight and
moonlight.

GANDALF
It reads, "The door of Durin, Lord of
Moria. Speak, friend, and enter."

MERRY
What do you suppose that means?

GANDALF
It's quite simple. If you are a friend,
speak the password and the doors will
open.

GANDALF
Annon edhellen, edro hi ammen!

ARAGORN
Mines are no place for a Pony, even one
so brave as Bill.

SAM
Bye, Bill.

ARAGORN
Go on, Bill, go on..don't worry, Sam...he
knows his way home.

SAM
Goodbye, Bill.

ARAGORN
Do not disturb the water.

FRODO
It's a riddle...

FRODO
Speak, friend, and enter. What's the
Elvish for friend?

GANDALF
mellon.

STOP

GIMLI
So, master elf, you will enjoy the fabled
hospitality of the dwarves; roaring
fires, malt beer, red meat off the bone.
This, my friend, is the home of my
cousin, Balin...and they call this a
Mine...
A mine!

BOROMIR
This is no mine...it's a tomb!

GIMLI
Oh...no...no..no...!

LEGOLAS
Goblins!

BOROMIR
We make for the Gap of Rohan.We should
never have come here.

GANDALF
Into the mines!

BOROMIR
Legolas!

GANDALF
We now have but one choice...we must face
the long dark of Moria. Be on your
guard...there are older and fouler things
than the Orcs in the deep places of the
world.

GANDALF
Quietly, now. It's a four day journey to
the other side. Let us hope that our
presence will go unnoticed.

STOP

GANDALF
I have no memory of this place.

PIPPIN
Are we lost?

MERRY
No. I don't think we are. Shhhh,
Gandalf's thinking.

PIPPIN
Merry!

MERRY
What?

PIPPIN
I'm hungry.

FRODO
There's something down there.

GANDALF
It's Gollum.

FRODO
Gollum!

GANDALF
He's been following us for three days.

FRODO
He escaped the dungeons of Barad- dur?

GANDALF
Escaped...or was set loose. And now the
Ring has drawn him here...he will never
be rid of his need for it. He hates and
loves the ring, as he hates and loves
himself. Smeagol's life is a sad story.

GANDALF
Yes...Smeagol he was once called...Before
the ring came to him, before it drove him
mad.

FRODO
It's a pity Bilbo didn't kill him when he
had the chance.

GANDALF
Pity? It was pity that stayed Bilbo's
hand. Many that live deserve death, and
some that die deserve life. Can you give
it to them, Frodo?

GANDALF
Do not be too eager to deal out death in
judgment...even the very wise cannot see
all ends. My heart tells me that Gollum
has some part to play yet, for good or
ill, before this is over. The pity of
Bilbo may rule the fate of many.

FRODO
I wish the ring had never come to me...
I wish none of this had happened.

GANDALF
So do all who live to see such times, but
that is not for them to decide. All we
have to decide is what to do with the
time that is given to us.

GANDALF
There are other forces at work in this
world, Frodo, besides the will of evil.
Bilbo was meant to find the ring. In
which case, you also were meant to have
it...and that is an encouraging thought.

GANDALF
Ah! That it's that way!

MERRY
He's remembered!

GANDALF
No, but the air doesn't smell so foul
down there. If in doubt, Meriadoc,
always follow your nose!

STOP

GANDALF
Let me risk a little more light.

GANDALF
Behold! The great realm and Dwarf city
of Dwarrowdelf!

SAM
Well, there's an eye opener and no
mistake!

GANDALF
Gimli!!

GIMLI
No...no...oh, no!

GANDALF
"Here lies Balin, son of Fudin, Lord of
Moria." He is dead, then. It's as I had
feared.

LEGOLAS
We must move on, we cannot linger.

GANDALF
"They have taken the Bridge and the
second hall: we have barred the
gates...but cannot hold them for
long...the ground shakes...drums in the
deep...we cannot get out. A shadow moves
in the dark. Will no-one save us? They
are coming."

GANDALF
Fool of a Took! Throw yourself in next
time and rid us of your stupidity!

SAM
Mister Frodo!

LEGOLAS
Orcs !

ARAGORN
Get back! Stay close to Gandalf.

BOROMIR
They have a cave troll!

GIMLI
Let them come! There is one Dwarf yet in
Moria who still draws breath!

STOP

SAM
He's alive!

FRODO
I'm alright. I'm not hurt.

ARAGORN
You should be dead. That spear would've
skewered a wild boar!

GANDALF
I think there's more to this hobbit than
meets the eye.

GIMLI
Mithril! You are full of surprises,
Master Baggins.

GANDALF
To the bridge of Khazad-dum!

GANDALF
This way!

STOP

BOROMIR
What is this new devilry?

GANDALF
A Balrog..a demon of the ancient world!
This foe is beyond any of you!
Run! Quickly!

GANDALF
Lead them on, Aragorn. The bridge is
near.

GANDALF
Do as I say; swords are no more use here.

STOP

GANDALF
Over the bridge! Fly!

GANDALF
You cannot pass!

FRODO
Gandalf!

GANDALF
I am a servant of the Secret Fire,
wielder of the flame of Anor. The dark
fire will not avail you, flame of Udun!

GANDALF
Go back to the shadow!

GANDALF
You shall not pass!

FRODO
Gandalf!

GANDALF
Fly, you fools!

FRODO
No!

ARAGORN
Gandalf!

STOP

ARAGORN
Legolas, get them up!

BOROMIR
Give them a moment...for pity's sake!

ARAGORN
By nightfall these hills will be swarming
with Orcs! We must reach the woods of
Lothlorien. Come, Boromir, Legolas,
Gimli, get them up. On your feet, Sam.

ARAGORN
Frodo? Frodo!

STOP

GIMLI
Stay close, young hobbits..they say a
Sorceress lives in these woods. An elf-
witch of terrible power. All who look
upon her fall under her spell...

GALADRIEL
Frodo...

GIMLI
And are never seen again!

GALADRIEL
...your coming to us is as the footsteps
of doom. You bring great evil here,
Ringbearer.

SAM
Mister Frodo?

GIMLI
Well, here's one dwarf she won't ensnare
so easily. I have the eyes of a hawk and
the ears of a fox!

HALDIR
The dwarf breathes so loud we could have
shot him in the dark.

ARAGORN
Haldir of Lorien, we come here for your
help. We need your protection.

GIMLI
Aragorn! These woods are perilous. We
should go back.

HALDIR
You have entered the realm of the Lady of
the Wood. You cannot go back.

HALDIR
Come, she is waiting.

STOP

CELEBORN
Eight there are, yet nine there were set
out from Rivendell. Tell me, where is
Gandalf, for I much desire to speak with
him.

GALADRIEL
...he has fallen into shadow. Galadriel
looks to Aragorn.

GALADRIEL
The Quest stands upon the edge of a
knife. Stray but a little and it will
fail, to the ruin of all...Yet hope
remains while the company is true.

GALADRIEL
Do not let your hearts be troubled. Go
now and rest for you are weary with
sorrow and much toil.

GALADRIEL
Tonight you will sleep in peace.
Welcome, Frodo of the Shire...

GALADRIEL
...one who has seen the eye.

STOP

LEGOLAS
A lament for Gandalf...

MERRY
What do they say about him?

LEGOLAS
I have not the heart to tell you. For me,
the grief is still too near.

ARAGORN
Take some rest..these borders are well
protected.

BOROMIR
I will find no rest here. I heard her
voice inside my head...she spoke of my
father and the fall of Gondor, and she
said to me: "Even now, there is hope left.
But I cannot see it...it is long since
we had any hope.

BOROMIR
My father is a noble man, but his rule is
failing and our..our people lose faith.
He looks to me to make things right...and
I would do it, I would see the glory of
Gondor restored. Have you ever seen it,
Aragorn? The White Tower of Ecthelion,
glimmering like a spike of pearl and
silver, its banners caught high in the
morning breeze...have you ever been
called home by the clear ringing of
silver trumpets?

ARAGORN
I have seen the white city..long ago.

BOROMIR
One day our paths will lead us there, and
the tower guards shall take up the call
"the Lords of Gondor have returned."

STOP

GALADRIEL
Will you look into the mirror?

FRODO
What will I see?

GALADRIEL
Even the wisest cannot tell for the
mirror shows many things...things that
were ..things that are...and some things
that have not yet come to pass.

STOP

GALADRIEL
I know what it is you saw...for it is
also in my mind. It is the future,
Frodo. It is what will come to pass if
you should fail.

GALADRIEL
The fellowship is breaking. It has
already begun. He will try to take the
ring. You know of whom I speak. One by
one, it will destroy them all.

FRODO
If you ask it of me, I will give you the
One Ring.

GALADRIEL
You offer it to me freely...I do not deny
that my heart has greatly desired this.

GALADRIEL
In place of the Dark Lord, you would have
a Queen, not dark, but beautiful and
terrible as the Dawn. Treacherous as the
Sea! Stronger than the foundations of
the earth...all shall love me and
despair!

GALADRIEL
I pass the test.
I will diminish and go into the west and
remain Galadriel.

FRODO
I cannot do this alone...

GALADRIEL
You are the ring-bearer, Frodo...to bear
a ring of power is to be alone. This task
was appointed to you, and if you do not
find a way, no one will.

FRODO
Then I know what I must do. It's
just...I'm afraid to do it.

GALADRIEL
Even the smallest person can change the
course of the future.

STOP

SARUMAN
Do you know how the Orcs first came into being?

SARUMAN
They were Elves once. Taken by the Dark
Powers ... tortured and mutilated...a
ruined and terrible form of life. And
now...perfected. My fighting Uruk-Hai.
Whom do you serve?

LURTZ
Saruman.

SARUMAN
Hunt them down. Do not stop until they
are found. You do not know pain. You do
not know fear. You will taste man-flesh.

SARUMAN
One of the Halflings carries something of
great value...bring him to me...alive and
unspoiled...kill the others.

STOP

GALADRIEL
Farewell, Frodo Baggins. I give you the
light of Earendil, our most beloved star.

GALADRIEL
May it be a light for you in dark places,
when all other lights go out.

STOP

ARAGORN
The Argonath...

ARAGORN
Long have I desired to look upon the
kings of old...my kin.

ARAGORN
We cross the lake at nightfall, hide the
boats and continue on foot..we approach
Mordor from the North.

GIMLI
Oh, yes, just a simple matter of finding
our way through Emyn Muil, an impassable
labyrinth of razor sharp rocks. And
after that gets even better...a
festering, stinking marshland, far as the
eye can see.

ARAGORN
That is our Road...I suggest you take
some rest and recover your strength,
Master Dwarf.

GIMLI
Recover my...

LEGOLAS
We should leave now.

ARAGORN
No. Orcs patrol the Eastern shore. We
must wait for cover of darkness.

LEGOLAS
It is not the Eastern shore that worries
me.

LEGOLAS
A shadow and a threat has been growing in
my mind. Something draws near, I can
feel it.

MERRY
Where's Frodo?

STOP

BOROMIR
None of us should wander alone; you least
of all. So much depends on you...Frodo?

BOROMIR
I know why you seek solitude. You
suffer, I see it day by day. Are you
sure you do not suffer needlessly?

BOROMIR
Let me help you. There are other ways,
Frodo..other paths that we might take.

FRODO
I know what you would say, and it would
seem like wisdom but for the warning of
my heart.

BOROMIR
Warning? Against what?

BOROMIR
We are all afraid, Frodo. But to let that
fear drive us to destroy what hope we
have...don't you see that is madness?

FRODO
There is no other way.

BOROMIR
I ask only for the strength to defend my
people.
If you would but lend me the ring...

FRODO
No. . .

BOROMIR
Why do you recoil? I am no thief.

FRODO
You are not yourself.

BOROMIR
What chance do you think you have? They
will find you, they will take the ring
and you will beg for death before the
end.

BOROMIR
You fool! It is not yours save by
unhappy chance...it might have been mine.
It should be mine. Give it to me! Give
me the ring.

BOROMIR
I see your mind...you will take the ring
to Sauron. You will betray us! You go to
your death and the death of us all.

BOROMIR
Curse you! Curse you and your Halflings!

BOROMIR
Frodo! Frodo! What have I done. Please,
Frodo...

BOROMIR
I'm sorry, Frodo...Frodo...

STOP

ARAGORN
Frodo?

FRODO
It has taken Boromir.

ARAGORN
Where is the ring?

FRODO
Stay away!

ARAGORN
Frodo...I swore to protect you.

FRODO
Can you protect me from yourself?

FRODO
Would you destroy it?

ARAGORN
I would have gone with you to the end...
into the very fires of Mordor.

FRODO
I know...Look after the others,
especially Sam...he will not understand.

ARAGORN
Go, Frodo!

ARAGORN
Run! Run!!

STOP

MERRY
Frodo!

MERRY
Hide here, quick!

PIPPIN
Come on...

PIPPIN
What's he doing?

MERRY
He's leaving.

PIPPIN
No!

MERRY
Pippin!

STOP

LEGOLAS
The horn of Gondor!

ARAGORN
Boromir!

BOROMIR
Run! Run!

MERRY & PIPPIN
Boromir! Boromir!

STOP

BOROMIR
They took the little ones...

BOROMIR
Frodo...where is Frodo?

ARAGORN
I let Frodo go.

BOROMIR
Then you did what I could not. I tried
to take the ring from him.

ARAGORN
The ring is beyond our reach now.

BOROMIR
Forgive me, I did not see..I have failed
you all.

ARAGORN
No, Boromir. You fought bravely. You
have kept your honor.

BOROMIR
Leave it! It is over...the world of Men
will fall and all will come to darkness
and my city to ruin..Aragorn..

ARAGORN
I do not know what strength is in my
blood, but I swear to you... I will not
let the White City fall, nor your people
fail...

BOROMIR
Our people...our people...

BOROMIR
I would have followed you, my
brother...my captain, my King.

ARAGORN
Be at peace, son of Gondor.

ARAGORN
They will look for his coming from the
white tower...but he will not return.

STOP

SAM
Mister Frodo!

SAM
Not alone, Frodo. Mister Frodo!

FRODO
No, Sam.

FRODO
Go back,Sam. I'm going to Mordor alone.

SAM
Of course you are...and I'm coming with
you!

FRODO
You can't swim.

FRODO
Sam!

SAM
I made a promise, Mister Frodo...a promise.
"Don't you leave him, Samwise Gamgee."
And I don't mean to...I don't mean to.

FRODO
Oh, Sam!

FRODO
Come on then..

STOP

LEGOLAS
If we are quick, we will catch Frodo and
Sam before nightfall.

LEGOLAS
You mean not to follow them...

ARAGORN
Frodo's fate is no longer in our hands.

GIMLI
Then it has all been in vain...the
fellowship has failed.

ARAGORN
Not if we hold true to each other. We
will not abandon Merry and Pippin to
torment and death, not while we have
strength left.

ARAGORN
Leave all that can be spared behind...

ARAGORN
We travel light. Let's hunt some Orc.

GIMLI
Yes! Ha!

STOP

FRODO
Mordor! I hope the others find a safer
road.

SAM
Strider'll look after them.

FRODO
I don't suppose we'll ever see them
again.

SAM
We may yet, Mister Frodo. We may.

FRODO
Sam?

FRODO
I'm glad you're with me.

